{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf360
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww25100\viewh13120\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Words have an infinite amount of uses. They can range from speaking to convey our feelings, ideas, judgment, and other functions that aid in establishing an understanding between individuals. A single word has the ability to make a difference in this world. This can be seen in a movie theater if someone were to simply yell 'fire'. One syllable that is far from anything remarkable - an effortless motion of the lips and tongue - sends a crowd into chaos, igniting feelings of fear, panic, and self preservation. In essence, the ties words have to emotions - their connotation - give them enormous potential. For example in Martin Luther King Jr.'s speech "I Have A Dream", King uses adjectives such as "searing" and withering" when describing the injustices his people have faced to link a tangible pain to the somewhat abstract notion of injustice and creating stronger responses from his target audience. Human beings for this unique reason have emerged as the dominant species on this planet; the power of the meaning of words has enabled us to establish the society we have today. \
\
Such power upholds the truth in the theory of anthropocentrism as is evident if one views a species very different from our own, for example apes. Apes are much like ourselves, in fact we once resembled such creatures thousands of years before. They have thumbs, minds capable of more complex thought and DNA that has a striking resemblance to our own. In essence, they have the capability to rise to the top, yet why have they not? The answer is that they lack the ability to communicate effectively without the power of words. Non-verbal communication is not enough to relay more complex thought - it is far to ambiguous and subjective. Humans on the other hand, with the combination of both words and gestures have the ability to express more elaborate emotions and ideas, using such to form a common understanding between a large group of individuals - essentially using words as a tool to bring people together to achieve a common goal. The effective use of this tool of communication was seen  An exemplary orator, King uses words to paint the picture of the African-American ceaseless fight for equality. King speaks of his people as fighting for the "riches of freedom" and the "security of justice", goals that are both concrete, within reach and play upon the African-Americans' want for the basic human rights that have been deprived from them over the past hundreds of years in America. He bolsters their will and unites them by creating a common and highly desirable goal.\
\
Thus we see, words are a powerful tool that is often taken for granted. They can be the reason a group unites together to fight for a common cause. They are the reason we as a species have risen to the top. Their meaning is tethered to our emotion and creates empathy and understanding between unique individuals.}