{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187
\cocoascreenfonts1{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww25100\viewh13120\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 In exploring the characteristics of non-verbal and verbal communication, I chose the Simpsons in order to gain understanding about relationships by analyzing such action. I chose three characters to accomplish this goal: Bart, Millhouse, and Lisa. Through observing the interactions between these characters, I was able to explore the relationships between 1) a brother and sister (Lisa and Bart), 2) two best friends (Millhouse and Bart), and 3) two people in love, if somewhat convoluted (Millhouse and Lisa).\
\
The first relationship between Lisa and Bart is one that is characterized by constant taunting. For example, Lisa is painting a portrait of two women in a neoclassical design when Bart jumps in front of the two 'models' in an attempt to ruin the photo. Lisa, claiming its a painting not a photo says "its not like I'm just going to paint you in" - which she unknowingly does. In this scene, Lisa groans in complaint reflecting her irritation that her project was ruined. She uses hostile phrases such as "you'll regret the day you were born" as a way to voice her annoyance and aggravation towards Bart. The greatest representation of this anger is when she throws her paint easel at her brother,  a non verbal anger that expresses aggression and reveals the depth of her vexation. Bart on the other hand uses his actions and words to irritate Lisa even further - his ultimate goal. After he ruining her art, he looks down sadly as if repentant of what he has done and then after claiming he's sorry because would have rather ruined  "one years worth of work" as opposed to the six months she spent on it, he guffaws loudly. This shows Bart uses his teasing words as a power over Lisa's annoyance. This relationship could be improved if Bart, }